County of Riverside - Class Specification Bulletin Page 1 of 2 

Class Code: 

SENIOR ACCOUNTANT 77413 

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE 
Established Date: May 1, 1988 
Revision Date: May 1, 1988 



SALARY RANGE 

$21.31 - $27.77 Hourly $3,693.07 - $4,813.29 Monthly $44,316.90 - $57,759.52 Annually 

CLASS CONCEPT: 

Under direction, to perform complex technical accounting or auditing work; to act in a lead capacity 
over other accounting and clerical staff; to prepare a variety of accounting, statistical, and narrative 
reports; and to do other work as required. 

This is the advanced worker and lead level class in the accountant series. This class is utilized in the 
Auditor-Controller's Office and in operating departments of the County which have a variety of 
complex work. Incumbents exercise independent judgment in the performance of difficult and 
complex accounting or auditing work. Senior Accountants may act in a lead capacity or as a project 
leader over lower level professional and clerical staff but have primary responsibility for the 
accomplishment of specific accounting or auditing assignments. 

REPRESENTATION UNIT: 

Professional 

EXAMPLES OF ESSENTIAL DUTIES: 

(Depending on the area of assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the following) 

• Maintains and controls the fiscal record keeping functions and systems in a departmental accounting 
function involving complex and diversified work or plans, organizes, and performs complex and 
specialized accounting work in the Auditor-Controller's Office. 
• Examines and analyzes complex fiscal record keeping systems and procedures; prepares, reviews, 
and verifies a variety of accounting, statistical, and narrative reports. 
• Reviews accounting policies and procedures to assure conformance to applicable laws, rules, and 
regulations; reviews, evaluates, and assists in the revision, design, and implementation of accounting 
systems. 
• Provides advice and assistance to departments and other officials on a variety of accounting and 
budgetary problems. 
• May review laws, legislation, and policies to determine impact on accounting procedures and to 
provide guidance in the performance of accounting and fiscal work. 
• Coordinates work with other sections, departments, or outside fiscal intermediaries; may coordinate 
accounting functions with data processing systems. 
• May represent the department at meetings relative to fiscal and budgetary operations. 
• May perform purchasing or other fiscally related staff services; may assist in the preparation of 
district and departmental budgets. 
• May train, lead, and assist in the evaluation of work performance of accounting and clerical 
personnel. 
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/riverside/default.cfm?action=specbulletin&ClassSpecI... 6/29/2006 

County of Riverside - Class Specification Bulletin Page 2 of 2 


• Performs special accounting related assignments or projects as required. 
RECRUITING GUIDELINES: 

Education: Graduation from a recognized college with a Bachelor's Degree with a specialization in 
Accounting, or possession of a valid certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal 
Auditor. A specialization in accounting is considered to consist of the equivalent to 18 semester or 27 
quarter units in accounting coursework. 

Experience: At least ten years of experience as a professional accountant or auditor. 

Knowledge of: Accounting principles and practices; governmental accounting and budgeting; laws and 
regulations affecting governmental financial operations; the principles of business management and 
office methods and procedures; data processing systems applicable to accounting operations. 

Senior Accountant positions assigned to the Internal Audits Division of the Auditor-Controller's Office 
are required to have knowledge of auditing principles, practices, and standards. 

Ability to: Interpret and analyze complex data and material and draw logical conclusions; understand, 
interpret, and apply laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures related to accounting operations; 
maintain complex records and prepare complex reports and financial statements; prepare oral and 
written reports; establish and maintain effective working relationships. 

OTHER REQUIREMENTS: 

License/Certificate: Possession of a valid California Driver's License may be required for some 
positions in this class. 

PRE-EMPLOYMENT: 

All employment offers are contingent upon successful completion of both a pre-employment physical 
exam, including a drug/alcohol test, and a criminal background investigation, which involves 
fingerprinting. (A felony or misdemeanor conviction may disqualify the applicant from County 
employment). 

http://agency.governmentjobs.com/riverside/default.cfm?action=specbulletin&ClassSpecI... 6/29/2006 

